# CS-340-Client-Server-Development

# Portfolio Reflection 

# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

  Writing maintainable, readable, and adaptable code involves integrating proper design principles for professional programming. Design principles that are centered around proper naming convention; for instance, using clear and consistent naming for variables, classes, or functions can improve the readability of the code. By dividng the program up to reusable portions helps to keep the code modularized and easy to maintain, since this helps to isolate a lot of the functionality behind the methods and logic of the code. Ensuring that comments are inherent throughout the program provides a way for the code to be reused and is easy to read for other programmers who may try to either pick up the code or use it for their own purposes. Comments also help to understand a lot of the functionality behind the various functions as well. Finally, by adhering to proper coding standards within a specific language like Python helps to ensure that the code is written in a familiar format for any other potential developers. 

  Considering my work using the CRUD Python module from Project One, implementing these practices proved particularily beneficial. For instance, the modular design allowed me to easily connect the dashboard widgets to the database used in Project Two. The main advantage for this was that it made it easier for me to implement any updates that were needed or any new code that needed to be added for additional features. This CRUD Pyton module could be used in future applications that require database interactions. 

# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

My approach to problem-solving, especially as a computer scientist, involves first gaining a thorough understanding of the requirements. For this project with Grazioso Salvare, understanding the interaction between the dashboard and the database was crucial. Proper planning and design were the next steps. Choosing the appropriate database to store unstructured data and selecting a platform like Jupyter Notebooks to implement Python programming were important decisions during the design phase.

Using MongoDB to store unstructured data, performing CRUD operations on that data with Python, and creating an interactive dashboard with the Dash framework were key components of the development phase. This approach of selecting specific applications to meet the project requirements was different from assignments in other courses, where multiple applications come together to provide a fully interactive interface for data filtering. In the future, I would focus on becoming more familiar with the individual components of the applications to better integrate them, rather than just connecting a few components together. 

# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists improve the world by helping to solve complex problems with the use of sophisticated technology. They achieve this by designing software that helps to manage and analyze data, while also creating solutions that improve various processes and systems. My work on this project for Grazioso Salvare would help additional compnies by managing their data and providing an interface where data can be interacted with and visualized like the Austin Animal Center Outcomes. This helps to provide a structure to the decision making process when analyzing data for particular purposes. For instance, when deciding what types of breeds of dogs to choose from for certain environments, the data helped to visualize the various dogs that were available, as well as the the geolocation data associated with them. 
